# cui-lab-rotation-spring-2021

### Project Title:
Investigating the role of the gut-brain axis in cadmium-induced neurotoxicity

### Project Overview:
Cadmium (Cd) is a ubiquitous heavy metal that gets released into the environment via natural processes and human activities including the production of batteries and electroplating. Recent studies have shown a potential association between cadmium exposure and cognitive impairment in humans, and recent work in mouse models has helped corroborate this association. The gut microbiome is becoming increasingly recognized as having an important role in regulating neurological functions, and studies have shown compositional and functional differences in Alzheimer’s patients relative to their healthy controls. However, the role of the gut microbiome, especially when perturbed by Cd exposure, in driving the onset of Alzheimer’s disease (AD)-like symptoms has been largely unexplored. The proposed study will explore temporally sampled metagenomic shotgun sequencing results (fecal samples), blood metabolomics (blood serum), and behavioral tests in a mouse cohort treated with or without Cd. We will be implementing machine-learning methods to integrate these multi-omic data to investigate the role of the “gut-brain” axis in Cd-induced neurotoxicity and the onset of AD-like symptoms. One goal of this project is to determine how Cd exposure perturbs the microbiome and the composition of microbial metabolites in the blood, over a time course. The second goal will be to implement the machine learning approach to identify signatures of the gut microbiome and blood metabolome that may serve as clinical targets for the remediation or therapy of AD-like symptoms.
